README.md, before:

<div align="center">

  <h1>🪟 Windows-Use</h1>
  <a href="https://pepy.tech/project/windows-use">
    <img src="https://static.pepy.tech/badge/windows-use" alt="PyPI Downloads">
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/CursorTouch/windows-use/blob/main/LICENSE">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-green" alt="License">
  </a>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.12%2B-blue" alt="Python">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/platform-Windows%207–11-blue" alt="Platform: Windows 7 to 11">
  <br>

  <a href="https://x.com/CursorTouch">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/follow-%40CursorTouch-1DA1F2?logo=twitter&style=flat" alt="Follow on Twitter">
  </a>
  <a href="https://discord.com/invite/Aue9Yj2VzS">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Join%20on-Discord-5865F2?logo=discord&logoColor=white&style=flat" alt="Join us on Discord">
  </a>

</div>

<br>

**Windows-Use** is a powerful automation agent that interact directly with the Windows at GUI layer. It bridges the gap between AI Agents and the Windows OS to perform tasks such as opening apps, clicking buttons, typing, executing shell commands, and capturing UI state all without relying on traditional computer vision models. Enabling any LLM to perform computer automation instead of relying on specific models for it.

## Updates
- Migrated from langchain, langgraph.

## 🛠️Installation Guide

### **Prerequisites**

- Python 3.12 or higher
- [UV](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv) (or `pip`)
- Windows 7 or 8 or 10 or 11

### **Installation Steps**

**Install using `uv`:**

```bash
uv add windows-use
````

Or with pip:

```bash
pip install windows-use
```

## ⚙️Basic Usage


### Ollama

```python
# main.py

from windows_use.llms.ollama import ChatOllama
from windows_use.agent import Agent, Browser
from dotenv import load_dotenv
import os

load_dotenv()

def main():
    llm=ChatOllama(model='qwen3-vl:235b-cloud')
    agent = Agent(llm=llm, browser=Browser.EDGE, use_vision=False, auto_minimize=False)
    agent.print_response(query=input("Enter a query: "))

if __name__ == "__main__":
    main()
```

### Google Gemini

```python
# main.py

from windows_use.llms.google import ChatGoogle
from windows_use.agent import Agent, Browser
from dotenv import load_dotenv
import os

load_dotenv()

def main():
  #For Gemini API (not VertexAI)
  api_key = os.getenv("GOOGLE_API_KEY")
  llm=ChatGoogle(model="gemini-2.5-flash", api_key=api_key, temperature=0.7)
  agent = Agent(llm=llm, browser=Browser.EDGE, use_vision=False, auto_minimize=True)
  agent.print_response(query=input("Enter a query: "))

if __name__ == "__main__":
  main()
```

## 🤖 Run Agent

You can use the following to run from a script:

```bash
uv run main.py
```

---

## 🎥 Demos

**PROMPT:** Write a short note about LLMs and save to the desktop

<https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0faa5179-73c1-4547-b9e6-2875496b12a0>

**PROMPT:** Change from Dark mode to Light mode

<https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/47bdd166-1261-4155-8890-1b2189c0a3fd>

## 📈 Grounding

![Image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e1d32725-e28a-4821-9c89-24b5ba2e583f)
![Image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/be72ad43-c320-4831-95cf-6f1f30df18de)
![Image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d91b513e-13a0-4451-a6e9-f1e16def36e3)
![Image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7e832999-0fce-4d26-b884-cff17aa91073)
![Image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/87a7d775-c51f-494c-be73-cfd7e8282f8e)

## Vision

Talk to your computer. Watch it get things done.

## Star History

[![Star History Chart](https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=CursorTouch/Windows-Use&type=Date)](https://www.star-history.com/#CursorTouch/Windows-Use&Date)

## ⚠️ Caution

Agent interacts directly with your Windows OS at GUI layer to perform actions. While the agent is designed to act intelligently and safely, it can make mistakes that might bring undesired system behaviour or cause unintended changes. Try to run the agent in a sandbox envirnoment.

## 🪪 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgements

Windows-Use makes use of several excellent open-source projects that power its Windows automation features:

- [UIAutomation](https://github.com/yinkaisheng/Python-UIAutomation-for-Windows)

- [PyAutoGUI](https://github.com/asweigart/pyautogui)

Huge thanks to the maintainers and contributors of these libraries for their outstanding work and open-source spirit.

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please check the [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING) file for setup and development workflow.

Made with ❤️ by [Jeomon George](https://github.com/Jeomon)

---

## Citation

```bibtex
@software{
  author       = {George, Jeomon},
  title        = {Windows-Use: Enable AI to control Windows OS},
  year         = {2025},
  publisher    = {GitHub},
  url={https://github.com/CursorTouch/Windows-Use}
}
```

Commit message:

added agent_step and updated the readme.md

README.md, after:

<div align="center">

  <h1>🪟 Windows-Use</h1>
  <a href="https://pepy.tech/project/windows-use">
    <img src="https://static.pepy.tech/badge/windows-use" alt="PyPI Downloads">
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/CursorTouch/windows-use/blob/main/LICENSE">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-green" alt="License">
  </a>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.12%2B-blue" alt="Python">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/platform-Windows%207–11-blue" alt="Platform: Windows 7 to 11">
  <br>

  <a href="https://x.com/CursorTouch">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/follow-%40CursorTouch-1DA1F2?logo=twitter&style=flat" alt="Follow on Twitter">
  </a>
  <a href="https://discord.com/invite/Aue9Yj2VzS">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Join%20on-Discord-5865F2?logo=discord&logoColor=white&style=flat" alt="Join us on Discord">
  </a>

</div>

<br>

**Windows-Use** is a powerful automation agent that interact directly with the Windows at GUI layer. It bridges the gap between AI Agents and the Windows OS to perform tasks such as opening apps, clicking buttons, typing, executing shell commands, and capturing UI state all without relying on traditional computer vision models. Enabling any LLM to perform computer automation instead of relying on specific models for it.

## Updates
- Migrated from langchain, langgraph.

## 🛠️Installation Guide

### **Prerequisites**

- Python 3.12 or higher
- [UV](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv) (or `pip`)
- Windows 7 or 8 or 10 or 11

### **Installation Steps**

**Install using `uv`:**

```bash
uv add windows-use
````

Or with pip:

```bash
pip install windows-use
```

## ⚙️Basic Usage


### Ollama

```python
# main.py

from windows_use.llms.ollama import ChatOllama
from windows_use.agent import Agent, Browser
from dotenv import load_dotenv
import os

load_dotenv()

def main():
    llm=ChatOllama(model='qwen3-vl:235b-cloud')
    agent = Agent(llm=llm, browser=Browser.EDGE, use_vision=False, auto_minimize=False)
    agent.print_response(query=input("Enter a query: "))

if __name__ == "__main__":
    main()
```

### Google Gemini

```python
# main.py

from windows_use.llms.google import ChatGoogle
from windows_use.agent import Agent, Browser
from dotenv import load_dotenv
import os

load_dotenv()

def main():
  #For Gemini API (not VertexAI)
  api_key = os.getenv("GOOGLE_API_KEY")
  llm=ChatGoogle(model="gemini-2.5-flash", api_key=api_key, temperature=0.7)
  agent = Agent(llm=llm, browser=Browser.EDGE, use_vision=False, auto_minimize=True)
  agent.print_response(query=input("Enter a query: "))

if __name__ == "__main__":
  main()
```

## 🤖 Run Agent

You can use the following to run from a script:

```bash
uv run main.py
```

---

## 🎥 Demos

**PROMPT:** Write a short note about LLMs and save to the desktop

<https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0faa5179-73c1-4547-b9e6-2875496b12a0>

**PROMPT:** Change from Dark mode to Light mode

<https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/47bdd166-1261-4155-8890-1b2189c0a3fd>

## 📈 Grounding

![Image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e1d32725-e28a-4821-9c89-24b5ba2e583f)
![Image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/be72ad43-c320-4831-95cf-6f1f30df18de)
![Image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d91b513e-13a0-4451-a6e9-f1e16def36e3)
![Image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7e832999-0fce-4d26-b884-cff17aa91073)
![Image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/87a7d775-c51f-494c-be73-cfd7e8282f8e)

## Vision

Talk to your computer. Watch it get things done.

## Star History

[![Star History Chart](https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=CursorTouch/Windows-Use&type=Date)](https://www.star-history.com/#CursorTouch/Windows-Use&Date)

## ⚠️ Caution

Agent interacts directly with your Windows OS at GUI layer to perform actions. While the agent is designed to act intelligently and safely, it can make mistakes that might bring undesired system behaviour or cause unintended changes. Try to run the agent in a sandbox envirnoment.

## 🪪 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgements

Windows-Use makes use of several excellent open-source projects that power its Windows automation features:

- [UIAutomation](https://github.com/yinkaisheng/Python-UIAutomation-for-Windows)

- [PyAutoGUI](https://github.com/asweigart/pyautogui)

Huge thanks to the maintainers and contributors of these libraries for their outstanding work and open-source spirit.

## 📡 Telemetry

Windows-Use includes lightweight, privacy-friendly telemetry to help improve reliability, debug failures, and understand how the agent behaves in real environments.

You can disable telemetry by setting the environment variable:

```.env
ANONYMIZED_TELEMETRY=false
```
Or in your Python code:

```python
import os
os.environ["ANONYMIZED_TELEMETRY"] = "false"
```

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please check the [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING) file for setup and development workflow.

Made with ❤️ by [Jeomon George](https://github.com/Jeomon)

---

## Citation

```bibtex
@software{
  author       = {George, Jeomon},
  title        = {Windows-Use: Enable AI to control Windows OS},
  year         = {2025},
  publisher    = {GitHub},
  url={https://github.com/CursorTouch/Windows-Use}
}
```
